Hello class!
I hope you had a restful holiday and that you are your family are healthy and well.

## TL;DR - Some Course Info and What you can do right now
1. You good? good. Classes start Monday.
1. Please fill out this short survey right away to help us plan content focus and schedule.
1. If you haven’t programmed in Python before, start reading about it, setting up an environment or taking some tutorials.
1. Set up an account on Kaggle which we’ll be using for some of the assignments. This is a great way to practice Python since there are many existing competitions and solutions on it already.

## Welcome to DKMA!
The University is starting back up and classes begin on **Monday, January 11**. 
So hopefully everyone is well-rested and has a good studying environment. This term will be a lot of work, but I hope we can make this term fun as well as educational for everyone.

The **first thing** I’d like everyone to do is a take couple of minutes and fill out this survey below. The data will be anonymous, but it will help me plan the timing of events, such as live lectures and help sessions, and it will also give me an idea of the existing background of topics people have.

**Here is a link to the survey, please fill it out right away!** https://forms.gle/AthmJPvzhGtmxrd48

Later this week I’ll send out some initial plans for the course schedule over the term of assignments and topics. If you take a look at the course website (https://compthinking.github.io/DKMA/) you can see the set of topics and Learning Outcomes which will guide content delivery, assignments and tests.

In terms of preparation, these topics have many resources online, including the ones listed on the website. But there is no required textbook for the course, all the content you need to know will be provided as tutorial notes and slides or assigned reading.

Best Regards,
Prof. Crowley
