---
layout: post
date: 2022-03-07 14:41:00-0400
inline: false
description: Lab News for March 2022
title: Some great publications accepted in past four months.
meta: publications
topics:  reinforcement-learning, deep-learning, marl, mean-field-theory, ChemGymRL
domains: ai-for-science, ai-for-chemistry, medical-imaging, ai-for-games
projects: proj-chemgymrl
people: sriramganpathisubramanian, kenminglee, colinbellinger, markcrowley 
showdomains: false
showpeople: true
showprojects: true
showbib: true
output: true
publish: true
---

Members of the UWECEML lab have had a good couple months, with a few notable papers accepted to great venues. 

  

# Publications

### AAAI Paper on Decentralized Multi-Agent Reinforcement Learning
At this year's AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence in (location) Sriram Ganapathi Subramanian presented the paper:

> {% reference ganapathisubramanian2022aaai %}

You can read more about the research from [this post about the paper](https://www.ualberta.ca/science/news/2022/february/scaling-ai.html) by one of the other co-authors Prof. Matt Taylor at the University of Alberta.

### Canadian AI 2022 
> {% reference Bellinger2022Balancing %}

This paper {% cite Bellinger2022Balancing %} is called "Balancing Information with Observation Costs in Deep Reinforcement Learning" and it builds on other work {% cite beeler2022ieeeintsys %}, {% cite bellinger2022ai2ase %}, {% cite bellinger2021canai %} related to digital chemistry and material design where we attempt to use Reinforcement Learning to come up with better pathways for materials. This is a collaboration with the NRC. You can see the project page for [ChemGymRL](/chemgymrl) for more information.

### Neurips Workshop
> {% reference lee2021neuripsdeeprl %}

This workshop paper {% cite lee2021neuripsdeeprl %} and presentation was part of a project for undergraduate student Ken Ming Lee, who has worked in the lab as a URA multiple terms on RL algorithms and software development. The original idea to do an empirical study of RL algorithms in Multiagent setting flowed out of  results needed for Sriram's PhD research. This paper is an empirical comparison of many single and multi-agent algorithms on a range of multi-agent planning domains. A longer version of this work has been submitted to Frontiers in AI journal for consideration {% cite lee2021frontai %}.






