---
layout: post
date: 2022-09-27 15:00:00-0400
inline: false
description: Lab News for Sept 2022
title: Lab News - PhD Defense, papers, jobs
meta: publications
tags: benyaminghojogh, sriramganapathisubramanian, kenminglee
marl, reinforcement-learning, deep-learning, mean-field-theory, empirical-study, forest-management, ai-for-games, marl, reinforcement-learning, deep-learning, mean-field-theory, empirical-study
domains: forest-management, ai-for-games
people: sriramganpathisubramanian, kenminglee, benyaminghojogh, markcrowley 
showdomains: false
publish: true
output: true
showtopics: false
showbib: true
---

Members of the UWECEML lab have had a great couple months, with some nice a publications and lots of career news.

## Publications

### A New Approach to Scaling Decision Making to Many Agents

> {% reference  ganapathisubramanian2022jair %}

In situations where the number of agents is very large, we need to make some assumptions about structure to make RL feasible. **[Mean Field Theory](/mean-field-theory/)** is one such approach where each agent considers the impact to its interactions via another "cloud" agent which is actually an aggregation of all other agents, via a mean field calculation.  This work was a core topic in the final stages of my PhD student Sriram Ganapathi Subramanian into **[Multi-Agent Reinforcement Learning (MARL)](/marl/)**. 


In this paper, we build on a previous work in the lab to take advantage of the fact that many real-world environments already deploy sub-optimal or heuristic approaches for generating policies and show  how to best use such approaches as advisors to help improve reinforcement learning in multi-agent domains. In this paper, we provide a principled framework for incorporating action recommendations from online sub-optimal advisors in multi-agent settings.


### Empirical Study of Reinforcement Learning Algorithms in Multi-Agent Settings
> {% reference lee2021frontai %} 

This [Frontiers AI Paper](https://www.frontiersin.org/articles/10.3389/frai.2022.805823/full?&utm_source=Email_to_authors_&utm_medium=Email&utm_content=T1_11.5e1_author&utm_campaign=Email_publication&field=&journalName=Frontiers_in_Artificial_Intelligence&id=805823) was led by fourth-year undergraduate student Ken Ming Lee with lots of guidance and help from my PhD student Sriram Ganapathi Subramanian {% cite lee2021frontai %}. It's a great empirical comparison of a number of single-agent and multi-agent RL algorithms on a standard set of MARL problems. Often single-agent algorithms are quickly hacked in order to to decision making on multi-agent domains and seem to work fairly well. Our motivating question was how often is this true and what kinds of problems require approaches that consider more dedicated multi-agent interaction.

This work expands on a previous study {% cite lee2021neuripsdeeprl %} from a NeurIPS Workshop in 2021. 


## Lab Member News

### Sriram's Defence

On June 27, 2022, long-time lab member [Sriram Ganapathi Subramanian]({{ site.data.coauthors["Ganapathi Subramanian"].url }}) successfully defended his PhD thesis: "Multi-Agent Reinforcement Learning in Large Complex Environments"

> {% reference subramanian2022uwspace %}

Congratulations Sriram!

Sriram started a postdoc position at the Vector Institute in September 2022 working with Prof. Sheila Mcllraith at UofT and Prof. Pascal Poupart at UWaterloo.


### Benyamin Ghojogh
Former PhD student Benyamin Ghojogh has taken up a new position at *Research Associate at KisoJi Biotechnology* working on exciting research on
> We are working on developing AI tools for paratope-epitope interaction prediction, such as Machine Learning methods to describe VHH Antibodies for semantic clustering, selection, and matching. We aim to expedite the drug discovery process through the in-silico methodologies.

Can't wait to hear more Benyamin!

### Promotion and Tenure
As of July 1, 2022, Dr. Mark Crowley is now a tenured, Associate Professor in the ECE department! *Phew.*

