---
layout: post
date: 2022-12-20 15:41:00-0400
inline: false
description: Lab News end of 2022
title: Latest Lab News - Year End and What a Year 
meta: publications
tags: marl, reinforcement-learning, deep-learning, dimensionality-reduction, mean-field-theory, causality
people: sriramganpathisubramanian, benyaminghojogh, markcrowley, zehracamlica
publish: true
showbib: true
showtopics: true
---

The year in review
- see news for [March 2022](/news/2022-09-27-LabNews) and [September 2022](/news/2022-03-07-LabNews/) for updates from earlier on in the year!


## Attending the Canadian Wildfire Conference

Just in time for Hallowe'en this year I visited Edmonton, Alberta along with my MASc student Xiang Fang to attend the [Wildland Fire Canada Conference (WFCC)](https://wildlandfirecanada.com/) to meet with researchers and practitioners dealing with Forest Wildfires in Canada and around the world. Part of our research uses wildfire as a challenging test and application domain for prediction, planning, risk assessment and visualization. This work is funded through [Canada Wildfire](https://www.canadawildfire.org/), a nationally funded strategic network, aiming to connect researchers from planning, computer science, engineerings with more traditional forestry connected fields. We had a lot of good leads on datatsets and problems right from the source.

### AI Seminar : "A Dream of Cause and Fire"
While I was at Edmonton, I was also invited to visit to friends and colleagues at the [Alberta Machine Intelligence Institute (AMII)](https://www.amii.ca/) 

My talk was some high-level musings about things I've been thinking about recently like causality, [Reinforcement Learning](reinforcement-learning), and since it was after the conference, some ideas about how Machine Learning research can help and be helped by Forest Wildfire as well. It will be up on [2022 AMII AI Seminar page](https://sites.google.com/ualberta.ca/ai-seminar/past-seminars/2022?authuser=0) at some point. 

> Mark Crowley. “A Dream of Cause and Fire:  Musings on the Current and Future Uses of AI for Science”.  *Alberta Machine Intelligence Institute (AMII)*. Host: Mathew Taylor, UAlberta. Nov 4, 2022.

## Publications
In the last part of the yar we also had a good set of 

### Using Affect as a Communication Modality to Improve Human-Robot Communication in Robot-Assisted Search and Rescue Scenarios
> {% reference akgun2022toac %}

Through a collaboration with Prof. Kerstin Dautenhahn this exciting paper is on it's way to being published showcasing useful evaluations of the usefulness of emotional signalling to improve communication speed and clarify for earch And Rescue (SAR) robots in noisy environments.


### Predicting Aggressive Human Driver Behaviour
> {% reference camlica2022iotsms %}

In Nov 2022 we had a workshop paper {% cite camlica2022iotsms %} accepted on this topic as part of an international IOT conference. It presented new results from my PhD student Zehra Camlica on her work modelling aggressive/passive human driver behaviour styles using deep learning. We used simulated and real collected driver user data from the DBL project to validate the models.  I presented it virtually in Dec 2022.


### Manifold Learning Book finally released
> {% reference ghojogh2022springerbook %}

Our long-awaited, much discussed, by us at least, textbook on Manifold Learning and Dimensionality Reduction is now at the final stage before being published via Springer Nature. The book is in the topic area of my former PhD student Benyamin Ghojogh's thesis. Benyamin led the massive effort involved in the completion of this textbook. We're confident it will be a fantastic resource for students and researchers wanting a wide view of this field but also one built from the ground up from the fundamentals at each step.





### Another year, after all
So with all that, another year has ended. May the next one bring us all to greater joy and knowledge.



