---
layout: page
description: Winter 2025 - ECE 657A
permalink: /dkma/
title: Data Analysis and Machine Learning
img: /assets/img/teaching/ece657logo.png
date: 2025-01-06
meta: ECE 657A - Winter 2025
tags:
  - ece657a
  - machine-learning
  - artificial-intelligence
  - teaching
  - teaching-ugrad
showtitle: true
importance: 1 
---


Offered Winter 2025 by Prof. Mark Crowley

### Course Description

Engineers encounter data in many of their tasks, whether the sources of this data may be from experiments, databases, computer files or the Internet.  There is a dire need for effective methods to model and analyze the data and extract useful knowledge from it and to know how to act on it. In this course you will learn the fundamental tools for assessing, preparing and analyzing data. You will learn to design a data and analysis pipeline to move from raw data to task solution. You will learn to implement a variety of analytical and machine learning algorithms to including supervised, unsupervised and other learning approaches. Students will gain practical experience with coding and analysis through assignments. Research students will have opportunity to connect course material to their research as a project instead of some of the assignments. 



### Course Outline

See the [**official course outline**](https://outline.uwaterloo.ca) for course location, times, staff contact and other information.


### Additional Resource Links

This page will have additional resources linking to previous courses, topic notes etc, which may also be duplicated on LEARN.

- [YouTube Channel](https://www.youtube.com/channel/UC7vU2kP8oNwvr0GuAqoxYGA) (old videos)
- [Lectures Schedule](https://compthinking.github.io/DKMA/lectures/) (from previous year 2023)
- **Hypoth.ECE657A:** [Collaborative Readings](https://hypothes.is/groups/xrxZM1b3/ece657a)

# Course News and Announcements
These will generally be posted into LEARN so that everyone can get a notification of announcements and updates. Be sure to enable notifications for course announcements.

